Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m
going to explain a Dutch family film
called “Eep,” Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
The movie begins in a small town in
the Netherlands. A middle-aged man
named Warre lives with his wife Tine on an
isolated farm, surrounded by open meadows.
Warre likes to watch birds as a hobby. He
often goes out in the woods with his binoculars
and a book about birds. One day, Warre is
birdwatching when he hears chirping noises nearby.
He goes to check for the noise and finds a tiny
creature lying on the ground. The creature fits
in the palm of his hand. It has a body and face
like a human female but has wings for arms.
Warre looks up at the sky to find
her mother but doesn’t see anything.
Such a strange creature fascinates Warre,
so he brings her home to show his wife.
Tine is shocked to see the little girl with
wings. Warre claims that the bird girl might
be an extremely rare species because he has
never read about such creatures before. He
makes Tine remove things from a basket on
the dining table and uses the basket as a
crib for the little girl. Tine suggests they
contact the police and hand the girl to them,
but Warre wants to wait for the girl’s parents
to arrive. Later, we see Tine lovingly singing
a lullaby to her. Tine and Warre have no kids,
so they decide to take care of the little girl
as their own, in case no one comes to get her.
Tine dips her finger into the water and feeds the
little girl. At night, they look at the sleeping
child in fascination while deciding her name.
Warre wants to name her birdie, but they settle on
the name Viegeltje. The very next day, Tine buys
a Barbie doll that comes with a changeable dress
for Viegeltje and a tiny baby bottle to feed her.
Meanwhile, Warre makes Viegeltje a larger stroller
so they can take her outside like a normal child.
But when they put her on the stroller with
a blanket, her wings are still visible. So,
Tine cuts Warre’s sock and sews it into a tiny
poncho to hide Viegeltje’s wings. The poncho
works, and the two take their new daughter for
a stroll in the town. While walking, Viegeltje
makes noises which Tine thinks is her trying to
talk. But Warre believes that she is more bird
than a human, so she might just be chirping.
Some women from the town are delighted to see the
new child. Warre tells them that they have just
adopted Viegeltje. When asked why she is so tiny,
the two end the conversation and leave. A lot of
time has passed, and Viegeltje has gotten bigger.
She now barely fits in the dining table
basket. She has still not learnt to talk
and only makes noises like a bird. One
day, Tine notices Viegeltje trying to fly.
As time goes by, she starts acting more like a
bird than a human. Tine is distressed at the fact,
because she wants her daughter to be more human.
Despite the fact that she is different, Tine tries
to teach her to speak and eat with her feet. The
two have made a tiny crib for Viegeltje right
beside their bed. But she jumps into their bed and
sleeps in between the couple when she is scared.
One day, Tine hears Viegeltje saying the word
“Nini”. She thinks that the girl is calling her
mama. From that day onwards, she teaches her the
alphabet, but Viegeltje doesn’t seem to get it.
She also notices Viegeltje eating bugs from the
floor. Thinking that it is normal for birds to
eat bugs, she serves Viegeltje worms on a
plate and makes her use her feet to eat it.
When Viegeltje cannot do it, Tine is frustrated.
She believes that Viegeltje can only learn manners
by copying other people around her.
The following day, she takes Viegeltje
to a restaurant. Viegeltje sees pet birds
flapping their wings and does the same. Afraid
of being noticed, Tine takes her to a bathroom
cubicle and asks her to flap her wings there.
She waits outside talking to a woman. When
Viegeltje doesn’t come out after some time,
Tine opens the door to see only her shoes.
She gets a glimpse of Viegeltje flying away
through the window and yells her name
but to no avail. Tine goes back home,
still worried for her daughter and
tells Warre about the disappearance.
They figure that Viegeltje mustn't have gone too
far, so they make their way to the town to look
for her. Meanwhile, we see Viegeltje flying with a
group of birds, having the best time of her life.
She suddenly loses her balance because
of the wind and lands on someone’s bed
through a skylight window. It turns out the
room belongs to a little girl named Loetje.
Loetje is fascinated by Viegeltje’s wings and
asks her where she got them. The two befriend
each other. Loetje’s father doesn’t have time to
play with her, so she finds solace in Loetje.
Elsewhere, Warre and Tine reach the town and
go to an airline information desk. When they
do not get the information they need, they make
their way to a hotel to stay for the night.
Meanwhile, Loetje pretends that she is also a bird
and takes Viegeltje to a nearby tree. Viegeltje
easily climbs up and sleeps on a branch
while Loetje naps on the lower branch.
Warre and Tine can’t stay at a hotel because
all the rooms are booked. They somehow end up
coming to the same tree and sleeping underneath
it. In the morning, the couple meets Loetje,
who tells them about a bird girl sleeping on the
upper branch. But before they can get to her,
Viegeltje has already flown away. As the couple
tries to leave, Loetje follows them, claiming
that she’ll help them find Viegeltje. They
get on a bus while following a flock of birds.
Tine doesn't want to take Loetje with
them because she is a lot to handle,
but the little girl claims that she can take care
of herself. Viegeltje is flying with a flock of
birds but cannot keep up because of her size. She
lands on the roof of a church. The people see her
and call the firefighters to bring her down.
When a firefighter reaches her, he sees her flying
away afar. The people assume the girl was taken
away by eagles. The news makes the television,
and Warre sees it too. The couple then goes to
the firefighter’s house and try to tell him about
Viegeltje being a bird. He almost doesn’t believe
them but tells them that the bird went south.
He even offers to help them find her.
The group then makes their way south.
Meanwhile, Viegeltje reaches a tiny house in
the middle of nowhere. She is sitting at the
window watching some birds. When they fly away,
she joins them. But just then, gunshots are
heard. The group follows the noise and Loetje
finds Viegeltje at the bottom of the well.
They use the fireman’s gear to go down the well
and see that it is just Viegeltje’s poncho. As
night approaches, they still haven’t found her, so
the group goes to a nearby hotel to stay. Tine has
started treating Loetje as her own daughter.
At night, Loetje notices a strange boy on a tree
outside her room. She joins him,
and the two have a nice chat.
Later at night, the boy is sleeping on his bed
and hears a noise from under it. When he checks,
he is surprised to see Viegeltje sleeping under
her bed. He remembers Loetje telling him about
her so he quickly goes to call her. The two
return to see that Viegeltje is still there. All
of them get under the bed and sleep for the night.
Loetje is happy to have her friend back.
In the morning, the boy’s mother comes to clean
his room. The kids run to call Viegeltje's
parents, but Viegeltje has flown away again
before they get to her. Now, it is time for the
group to continue the pursuit; however, Loetje
doesn’t want to leave the boy. He is the only
friend she has ever had, and unlike Viegeltje, he
doesn’t run away. Tine understands the little girl
and lets her stay. The three of them continue
their journey but the fireman gets weak and
decides to stay in a nearby shed. The other two
end up in a jungle where they cross a river.
Warre has had enough of the pursuit and
tells Tine that they should rest for the day.
They go back to the shed and sleep.
At night, the firefighter wakes up to a
chirping noise. He sees Viegeltje hanging upside
down on a tree. She has injured her wings while
flying. The firefighter rescues her and dresses
her wound. When Viegeltje tries to fly again,
she is successful. In the morning, the
firefighter tells Tine and Warre about
his encounter and assures them that Viegeltje
is fine. He then separates from the couple, who
still pursue their daughter. They reach a beach
and see Viegeltje fly away towards the sea. They
finally realise that she has grown up and watch
her fly away together. The couple plans to take
a bus back home. But Warre hears a chirping noise
before getting on the bus. He runs toward the sea
as Tine follows behind. They rescue a drowning
Viegeltje from the water and bring her back.
In the following scene, the three are back home
having dinner. The couple is over the moon to have
their daughter back and celebrates by drinking.
But the next morning, they see her trying to fly
away through the window. The couple feels bad
for trying to limit their daughter’s freedom.
They finally decide to let her go happily. Warre
and Tine take her to the meadow she was found in,
give her a last kiss and let her fly away.
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications, and leave
a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.